0x01-shell_permissions/README.md, before:

**0x01-shell_permissions**

**Task 0:** [0-iam_betty](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/0-iam_betty)- Create a script that switches the current user to the user betty.
![1](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/cac8c7f7-7765-483e-8ae8-40f17aa139d9)

**Task 1:** [1-who_am_i](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/1-who_am_i)- Write a script that prints the effective username of the current user.
![1 real](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/569f7b8f-fa98-46f1-944f-6a9d25f93519)

**Task 2:** [2-groups](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/2-groups)- Write a script that prints all the groups the current user is part of.
![2](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/83f56e2b-a919-4157-9291-8cdfc75ea07f)

**Task 3:** [3-new_owner](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/3-new_owner)- Write a script that changes the owner of the file hello to the user betty.
![3](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/c5fb9fe1-e884-4d05-b4c2-627cab077f9e)

**Task 4:** [4-empty](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/4-empty)- A script that creates an empty file called hello. 
![4](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/18952adb-b5c8-41f0-bfeb-2d54c5261be7)

**Task 5:** [5-execute](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/5-execute)-Write a script that adds execute permission to the owner of the file hello. The file hello will be in the working directory.

![5](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/05f5c8d5-feb6-41b1-93b8-41f244b6a792)

**Task 6:** [6-multiple_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/6-multiple_permissions)- Write a script that adds execute permission to the owner and the group owner, and read permission to other users, to the file hello. 

![6](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/380526a6-06ab-4af6-8e9e-6f7c4ecfed4c)

**Task 7:** [7-everybody](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/7-everybody)- Write a script that adds execution permission to the owner, the group owner and the other users, to the file hello.

![7](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/8ea56082-98f4-4ed4-b5c6-e388805af139)

**Task 8:** [8-James_Bond](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/8-James_Bond)- Write a script that sets the permission to the file hello as follows:

Owner: no permission at all

Group: no permission at all

Other users: all the permissions

The file hello will be in the working directory You are not allowed to use commas for this script

![8](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/4b61550c-fd0e-48ad-b8a4-86556db160bc)

**Task 9:** [9-John_Doe](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/9-John_Doe)- Write a script that sets the mode of the file hello to this: -rwxr-x-wx
![9](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/8d59ccaf-0cdd-4fb2-b1a8-4bb04073a505)

**Task 10:** [10-mirror_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/10-mirror_permissions)- Write a script that sets the mode of the file hello the same as olleh’s mode.

![10](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/6d588ae4-11d1-445a-ae04-930926f68026)

**Task 11:** [11-directories_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/11-directories_permissions)- Create a script that adds execute permission to all subdirectories of the current directory for the owner, the group owner and all other users. Regular files should not be changed.

![11](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/fceb193e-34fa-47ab-ab60-8c3585857c6f)

**Task 12:** [12-directory_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/12-directory_permissions)- Create a script that creates a directory called my_dir with permissions 751 in the working directory.

![12](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/b0ffe5a9-4db3-4b0c-b6f5-f6597446a884)

**Task 13:** [13-change_group](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/13-change_group)- Write a script that changes the group owner to school for the file hello.

![13](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/d1a776d8-9c13-41fc-9921-c6ff3ad07d72)

**Task 14:** [100-change_owner_and_group](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/100-change_owner_and_group)- Write a script that changes the owner to vincent and the group owner to staff for all the files and directories in the working directory.

![14](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/209d068f-1c73-4e20-ac10-315a872451d6)

**Task 15:** [101-symbolic_link_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/101-symbolic_link_permissions)- Write a script that changes the owner and the group owner of _hello to vincent and staff respectively. The file _hello is in the working directory. The file _hello is a symbolic link.

![15](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/d4720b43-bfa9-4a6c-bdc4-866576e6c330)

**Task 16:** [102-if_only](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/102-if_only)- Write a script that changes the owner of the file hello to betty only if it is owned by the user guillaume.Write a script that changes the owner of the file hello to betty only if it is owned by the user guillaume.

![16](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/0f7db0c5-7ff0-4f6f-9f26-886d126bc59b)

**Task 17:** [103-Star_Wars](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/103-Star_Wars)- Write a script that will play the StarWars IV episode in the terminal.

![17](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/02c9ce68-435e-4900-8065-1130ab25e833)

Commit message:

Update README.md of 0x01. Shell, permissions

0x01-shell_permissions/README.md, after:

**0x01-shell_permissions**

This covered Linux shell permissions commands which include: chown, chmod, chgrp, sudo, su, id, umask, groups, whoami, adduser, useradd and addgroup. 

The resources used to learn were:

1). [Permissions](https://linuxcommand.org/lc3_lts0090.php)

2). [Chapter 9 of 'The Linux command line'](https://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php)

Below are tasks done to reinforce the concepts learnt:

**Task 0:** [0-iam_betty](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/0-iam_betty)- Create a script that switches the current user to the user betty.
![1](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/cac8c7f7-7765-483e-8ae8-40f17aa139d9)

**Task 1:** [1-who_am_i](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/1-who_am_i)- Write a script that prints the effective username of the current user.
![1 real](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/569f7b8f-fa98-46f1-944f-6a9d25f93519)

**Task 2:** [2-groups](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/2-groups)- Write a script that prints all the groups the current user is part of.
![2](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/83f56e2b-a919-4157-9291-8cdfc75ea07f)

**Task 3:** [3-new_owner](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/3-new_owner)- Write a script that changes the owner of the file hello to the user betty.
![3](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/c5fb9fe1-e884-4d05-b4c2-627cab077f9e)

**Task 4:** [4-empty](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/4-empty)- A script that creates an empty file called hello. 
![4](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/18952adb-b5c8-41f0-bfeb-2d54c5261be7)

**Task 5:** [5-execute](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/5-execute)-Write a script that adds execute permission to the owner of the file hello. The file hello will be in the working directory.

![5](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/05f5c8d5-feb6-41b1-93b8-41f244b6a792)

**Task 6:** [6-multiple_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/6-multiple_permissions)- Write a script that adds execute permission to the owner and the group owner, and read permission to other users, to the file hello. 

![6](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/380526a6-06ab-4af6-8e9e-6f7c4ecfed4c)

**Task 7:** [7-everybody](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/7-everybody)- Write a script that adds execution permission to the owner, the group owner and the other users, to the file hello.

![7](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/8ea56082-98f4-4ed4-b5c6-e388805af139)

**Task 8:** [8-James_Bond](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/8-James_Bond)- Write a script that sets the permission to the file hello as follows:

Owner: no permission at all

Group: no permission at all

Other users: all the permissions

The file hello will be in the working directory You are not allowed to use commas for this script

![8](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/4b61550c-fd0e-48ad-b8a4-86556db160bc)

**Task 9:** [9-John_Doe](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/9-John_Doe)- Write a script that sets the mode of the file hello to this: -rwxr-x-wx
![9](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/8d59ccaf-0cdd-4fb2-b1a8-4bb04073a505)

**Task 10:** [10-mirror_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/10-mirror_permissions)- Write a script that sets the mode of the file hello the same as olleh’s mode.

![10](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/6d588ae4-11d1-445a-ae04-930926f68026)

**Task 11:** [11-directories_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/11-directories_permissions)- Create a script that adds execute permission to all subdirectories of the current directory for the owner, the group owner and all other users. Regular files should not be changed.

![11](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/fceb193e-34fa-47ab-ab60-8c3585857c6f)

**Task 12:** [12-directory_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/12-directory_permissions)- Create a script that creates a directory called my_dir with permissions 751 in the working directory.

![12](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/b0ffe5a9-4db3-4b0c-b6f5-f6597446a884)

**Task 13:** [13-change_group](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/13-change_group)- Write a script that changes the group owner to school for the file hello.

![13](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/d1a776d8-9c13-41fc-9921-c6ff3ad07d72)

**Task 14:** [100-change_owner_and_group](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/100-change_owner_and_group)- Write a script that changes the owner to vincent and the group owner to staff for all the files and directories in the working directory.

![14](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/209d068f-1c73-4e20-ac10-315a872451d6)

**Task 15:** [101-symbolic_link_permissions](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/101-symbolic_link_permissions)- Write a script that changes the owner and the group owner of _hello to vincent and staff respectively. The file _hello is in the working directory. The file _hello is a symbolic link.

![15](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/d4720b43-bfa9-4a6c-bdc4-866576e6c330)

**Task 16:** [102-if_only](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/102-if_only)- Write a script that changes the owner of the file hello to betty only if it is owned by the user guillaume.Write a script that changes the owner of the file hello to betty only if it is owned by the user guillaume.

![16](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/0f7db0c5-7ff0-4f6f-9f26-886d126bc59b)

**Task 17:** [103-Star_Wars](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/blob/main/0x01-shell_permissions/103-Star_Wars)- Write a script that will play the StarWars IV episode in the terminal.

![17](https://github.com/Muthoni-Maryanne/alx-system_engineering-devops/assets/107298263/02c9ce68-435e-4900-8065-1130ab25e833)
